# Simple health economic DES model with Python
A very simple model to serve as an exploration of creating health economic Discrete-Event Simulation (DES) models in Python using SimPy library. The clinical context of the model is as follows:
* During a cycle of treatment, patients can either die (p = 0.2) or experience a full cycle of treatment without any other events occurring.
* Patients can receive up to five cycles of treatment.
* A full cycle causes a longer delay or timeout compared to dying during a cycle. These timeouts are assumed to generated by a exponential data generating process.
* After surviving the maximum number of treatment cycles, patients will enter a follow up phase, in which patients can also die.

The health economic context is as follows:
* Each cycle of treatment incurs 5000 euro initially and 250 euro per day.
* Followup costs 3500 euro per patient as a lumpsum.
* Health-related quality of life (QoL) in the treatment phase is 0.7 as expressed over the duration of one year.
* QoL in the followup phase is 0.8 as expressed over the duration of one year.

Furthermore, all patients are simulated at t = 0, so the interarrival time = 0. Note that the model currently only represents one comparator. So for an actual cost-effectiveness analysis, another comparator must be added, but this is very straightforward.

Two classes are created for the model: 1) a Patient class and 2) a Patient Generator class. The Patient class is the main component of the model. Here, patient characteristics are created as class attributes, and the model's logic or structure is programmed. The Patient Generator class is a generator of Patient instances, i.e., an object that simulates patients for our simulation.